(#889) Tutorial: Creating a script package (#890)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/guides/create/create-script-package.md

---
Order: 20
xref: create-script-package
Title: Create A Script Package
Description: Information on how to create packages that execute bundled PowerShell scripts with Chocolatey
---

This tutorial will focus on creating a Chocolatey script package. This type of package is one which contains one or more PowerShell scripts that are executed by Chocolatey on the target system.
This powerful package type allows you to version system configuration, making reporting and compliance much simpler!

If you have not yet read [Preparing Your Environment for Package Creation](#placeholder), please do so now and ensure
you are ready to go before continuing.

### Creating Your Package

> 1. Open the tutorials folder in VSCode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the tutorials folder in VSCode.
```

> 2. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` or select View > Command Palette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` or select **View** > **Command Palette**.
```

> 3. Type `Chocolatey:` and select `Create new Chocolatey package` from the list of available commands

Reviewer 2: Am I right in saying that you are going to mention the installation of the Chocolatey VSCode extension in the `Preparing Your Environment for Package Creation` link?

Author: Yes, Preparing your environment covers the installation of VSCode and all the needed extensions.

> 4. Give your package a name, e.g. `script-package`
> 5. Select `Default Template` when prompted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Give your package a name, e.g. `script-package`.
5. Select `Default Template` when prompted.
```

### Adding Your PowerShell Script

You can download an example PowerShell script from [here](#placeholder). Once downloaded, place this script inside the `tools` folder of your script package.

Next we'll create an install script that leverages the sample script.

### Create Your Install Script

Open the `chocolateyInstall.ps1` script from the Explorer window in VSCode. Replace the contents of the script with the following:

```powershell
$ErrorActionPreference = 'Stop' # stop on all errors
$toolsDir   = "$(Split-Path -parent $MyInvocation.MyCommand.Definition)"

$script = Join-Path $toolsDir -ChildPath 'example.ps1'

Write-Host "Executing script: $script"
& $script
```

Save and close the file.

### Cleaning Up The Packaging

> Our simple example here doesn't require anything special for an upgrade or uninstall scenario. In the VSCode explorer window find both the `chocolateyBeforeModify.ps1` and `chocolateyUninstall.ps1` files and remove them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our simple example here doesn't require anything special for an upgrade or uninstall scenario. In the VSCode Explorer window find both the `chocolateyBeforeModify.ps1` and `chocolateyUninstall.ps1` files and remove them.
```

> ### Creating Your Nuspec File

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating The Package Metadata
```

Reviewer: I feel the terms we use, nupkg and nuspec, don't heop make things easier for peopel to understand. They sound very complex, acronyms and technical. So this is my suggestion to help with that.

> The nuspec file is the metadata for your package. It provides information to Chocolatey such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package metadata is stored in a file with a `.nuspec`extension. It provides information to Chocolatey such as:
```

Reviewer: This is just a follow-on from the above.

- Package Id
- Package Version
- Author
- Synopsis
- Dependencies

For packages being published to the [Chocolatey Community Repository](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages) additional information is required.

> You can find information on nuspec requirements in our [Package Validator Rules](http://localhost:5080/en-us/community-repository/moderation/package-validator/rules/#requirements) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find information on package metadata requirements in our [Package Validator Rules](http://localhost:5080/en-us/community-repository/moderation/package-validator/rules/#requirements documentation.
```

Reviewer: Following on from above. Also note the URL above is wrong (localhost?). I haven't fixed it as you'll likely need to use the xref for it.

> In the explorer window find and open the `embedded-zip.nuspec` file.
> 
> Replace the contents of the nuspec file with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the VS Code Explorer window, find and open the `embedded-zip.nuspec` file.

Replace the contents of the file with the following:
```

```xml
<!-- Do not remove this test for UTF-8: if “Ω” doesn’t appear as greek uppercase omega letter enclosed in quotation marks, you should use an editor that supports UTF-8, not this one. -->
<package xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/packaging/2015/06/nuspec.xsd">
  <metadata>
    <id>script-package</id>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
    <title>script-package (Install)</title>
    <authors>Chocolatey Software</authors>
    <tags>script-package script tutorial</tags>
    <summary>Tutorial for script package</summary>
    <description>Tutorial for script package</description>
  </metadata>
  <files>
    <!-- this section controls what actually gets packaged into the Chocolatey package -->
    <file src="tools\**" target="tools" />
  </files>
</package>
```

### Compile Your Package

> The `choco pack` is used to compile your Chocolatey package into a nupkg file.

Reviewer 2: Not sure which way round is better, but I think something needs to change here..

```suggestion
The `choco pack` command is used to compile your Chocolatey package into a nupkg file.
```

```suggestion
`choco pack` is used to compile your Chocolatey package into a nupkg file.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `choco pack` is used to compile your package files into a usable Chocolatey package.
```

> 1. In VSCode press `ctrl+shift+p` or `View > Command Pallete`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In VSCode press `Ctrl+Shift+P` or **View** > **Command Pallete**
```

2. Type `Chocolatey:` and click `Chocolatey: Pack Chocolatey package(s)`
3. Select `script-package.nuspec` from the list

> 4. In the `additional arguments` dialog enter `--output-directory='C:\tutorials'` and press `Enter`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Additional arguments** dialog enter `--output-directory='C:\tutorials'` and press `Enter`.
```
